# Magic Rings

#### Ring of Animal Influence

*Ring, rare*

This ring has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. While wearing the ring, you can use an action to expend 1 of its charges to cast one of the following spells:

-   [[10. Spells#^633b74|Animal Friendship]] (save DC 13)
-   [[10. Spells#^d7c553|Fear]] (save DC 13), targeting only beasts that have an [[06. Abilities#^0a8595|Intelligence]] of 3 or lower
- [[10. Spells#^dc96b5|Speak with Animals]]

#### Ring of Djinni Summoning

*Ring, legendary (requires attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you can speak its command word as an action to summon a particular djinni from the Elemental Plane of Air. The djinni appears in an unoccupied space you choose within 120 feet of you. It remains as long as you concentrate (as if concentrating on a spell), to a maximum of 1 hour, or until it drops to [[08. Combat#^4fbb3c|zero hit points]]. It then returns to its home plane.

While summoned, the djinni is friendly to you and your companions. It obeys any commands you give it, no matter what language you use. If you fail to command it, the djinni defends itself against attackers but takes no other [[08. Combat#^91b911|actions]].

After the djinni departs, it can’t be summoned again for 24 hours, and the ring becomes nonmagical if the djinni dies.

#### Ring of Elemental Command

*Ring, legendary (requires attunement)*

This ring is linked to one of the four Elemental Planes. The GM chooses or randomly determines the linked plane.

While wearing this ring, you have advantage on [[08. Combat#^9b1f89|attack]] rolls against elementals from the linked plane, and they have disadvantage on [[08. Combat#^9b1f89|attack]] rolls against you. In addition, you have access to properties based on the linked plane.

The ring has 5 charges. It regains 1d4 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. Spells cast from the ring have a save DC of 17.

**Ring of Air Elemental Command**: You can expend 2 of the ring’s charges to cast [[10. Spells#^477024|dominate monster]] on an air elemental. In addition, when you fall, you descend 60 feet per round and take no damage from falling. You can also speak and understand Auran.

If you help slay an air elemental while attuned to the ring, you gain access to the following additional properties:

-   You have [[10. Spells#^1e8440|resistance]] to lightning damage.
-   You have a flying speed equal to your walking speed and can hover.
-   You can cast the following spells from the ring, expending the necessary number of charges: [[10. Spells#^b97d41|chain lightning]] (3 charges), [[10. Spells#^ca86ff|gust of wind]] (2 charges), or [[10. Spells#^4eee70|wind wall]] (1 charge).

**Ring of Earth Elemental** [[10. Spells#^88898b|command]]: You can expend 2 of the ring’s charges to cast [[10. Spells#^477024|dominate monster]] on an earth elemental. In addition, you can move in [[07. Adventuring#^4aa3b6|difficult terrain]] that is composed of rubble, rocks, or dirt as if it were normal terrain. You can also speak and understand Terran.

If you [[08. Combat#^4e49ab|help]] slay an earth elemental while attuned to the ring, you gain access to the following additional properties:

-   You have [[10. Spells#^1e8440|resistance]] to acid damage.
-   You can move through solid earth or rock as if those areas were [[07. Adventuring#^4aa3b6|difficult terrain]]. If you end [[08. Combat#^80af20|your turn]] there, you are shunted out to the nearest unoccupied space you last occupied.
-   You can cast the following spells from the ring, expending the necessary number of charges: [[10. Spells#^ae5a13|stone shape]] (2 charges), [[10. Spells#^e77f85|stoneskin]] (3 charges), or [[10. Spells#^8ab9eb|wall of stone]] (3 charges).

**Ring of Fire Elemental Command**: You can expend 2 of the ring’s charges to cast [[10. Spells#^477024|dominate monster]] on a fire elemental. In addition, you have [[10. Spells#^1e8440|resistance]] to fire damage. You can also speak and understand Ignan.

If you help slay a fire elemental while attuned to the ring, you gain access to the following additional properties:

-   You are immune to fire damage.
-   You can cast the following spells from the ring, expending the necessary number of charges: [[10. Spells#^d08863|burning hands]] (1 charge), [[10. Spells#^9bcc77|fireball]] (2 charges), and [[10. Spells#^583b97|wall of fire]] (3 charges).

**Ring of Water Elemental Command**: You can expend 2 of the ring’s charges to cast [[10. Spells#^477024|dominate monster]] on a water elemental. In addition, you can stand on and walk across liquid surfaces as if they were solid ground. You can also speak and understand Aquan.

If you help slay a water elemental while attuned to the ring, you gain access to the following additional properties:

-   You can breathe underwater and have a swimming speed equal to your walking speed.
-   You can cast the following spells from the ring, expending the necessary number of charges: [[10. Spells#^95e632|create or destroy water]] (1 charge), [[10. Spells#^54cf30|control water]] (3 charges), [[10. Spells#^5855a4|ice storm]] (2 charges), or [[10. Spells#^cd57f1|wall of ice]] (3 charges).

#### Ring of Evasion

*Ring, rare (requires attunement)*

This ring has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. When you fail a [[06. Abilities#^d6a193|Dexterity]] saving throw while wearing it, you can use your [[08. Combat#^06505e|reactions]] to expend 1 of its charges to succeed on that saving throw instead.

#### Ring of Feather Falling

*Ring, rare (requires attunement)*

When you fall while wearing this ring, you descend 60 feet per round and take no damage from falling.

#### Ring of Free Action

*Ring, rare (requires attunement)*

While you wear this ring, [[07. Adventuring#^4aa3b6|difficult terrain]] doesn’t cost you extra movement. In addition, magic can neither reduce your speed nor cause you to be [[11. Game Mastering#^938a8d|paralyzed]] or [[11. Game Mastering#^3c9629|restrained]].

#### Ring of Invisibility

*Ring, legendary (requires attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you can turn invisible as an action. Anything you are wearing or carrying is invisible with you. You remain invisible until the ring is removed, until you [[08. Combat#^9b1f89|attack]] or [[08. Combat#^d7ef65|cast a spell]], or until you use a [[08. Combat#^8e37a9|bonus action]] to become visible again.

#### Ring of Jumping

*Ring, uncommon (requires attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you can cast the [[10. Spells#^ac3996|jump]] spell from it as a [[08. Combat#^8e37a9|bonus action]] at will, but can target only yourself when you do so.

#### Ring of Mind Shielding

*Ring, uncommon (requires attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you are immune to magic that allows other creatures to read your thoughts, determine whether you are lying, know your alignment, or know your creature type. Creatures can telepathically communicate with you only if you allow it.

You can use an action to cause the ring to become invisible until you use another action to make it visible, until you remove the ring, or until you die.

If you die while wearing the ring, your soul enters it, unless it already houses a soul. You can remain in the ring or depart for the afterlife. As long as your soul is in the ring, you can telepathically communicate with any creature wearing it. A wearer can’t prevent this telepathic communication.

#### Ring of Protection

*Ring, rare (requires attunement)*

You gain a +1 bonus to AC and saving throws while wearing this ring.

#### Ring of Regeneration

*Ring, very rare (requires attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you regain 1d6 [[06. Abilities#^da8785|hit points]] every 10 minutes, provided that you have at least 1 hit point. If you lose a body part, the ring causes the missing part to regrow and return to full functionality after 1d6 + 1 days if you have at least 1 hit point the whole time.

#### Ring of Resistance

*Ring, rare (requires attunement)*

You have [[10. Spells#^1e8440|resistance]] to one damage type while wearing this ring. The gem in the ring indicates the type, which the GM chooses or determines randomly.

| d10 | Damage Type | Gem        |
|-----|-------------|------------|
| 1   | Acid        | Pearl      |
| 2   | Cold        | Tourmaline |
| 3   | Fire        | Garnet     |
| 4   | Force       | Sapphire   |
| 5   | Lightning   | Citrine    |
| 6   | Necrotic    | Jet        |
| 7   | Poison      | Amethyst   |
| 8   | Psychic     | Jade       |
| 9   | Radiant     | Topaz      |
| 10  | Thunder     | Spinel     |

#### Ring of Shooting Stars

*Ring, very rare (requires attunement outdoors at night)*

While wearing this ring in dim light or darkness, you can cast [[10. Spells#^4adbec|dancing lights]] and [[10. Spells#^ab29ba|light]] from the ring at will. Casting either spell from the ring requires an action.

The ring has 6 charges for the following other properties. The ring regains 1d6 expended charges daily at dawn.

**Faerie Fire**: You can expend 1 charge as an action to cast [[10. Spells#^85c30b|faerie fire]] from the ring.

**Ball Lightning**: You can expend 2 charges as an action to create one to four 3-foot-diameter spheres of lightning. The more spheres you create, the less powerful each sphere is individually.

Each sphere appears in an unoccupied space you can see within 120 feet of you. The spheres last as long as you concentrate (as if concentrating on a spell), up to 1 minute. Each sphere sheds dim light in a 30-foot radius.

As a [[08. Combat#^8e37a9|bonus action]], you can move each sphere up to 30 feet, but no farther than 120 feet away from you. When a creature other than you comes within 5 feet of a sphere, the sphere discharges lightning at that creature and disappears. That creature must make a DC 15 [[06. Abilities#^d6a193|Dexterity]] saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes lightning damage based on the number of spheres you created.

| Spheres | Lightning Damage |
|---------|------------------|
| 1       | 4d12             |
| 2       | 5d4              |
| 3       | 2d6              |
| 4       | 2d4              |

**Shooting Stars**: You can expend 1 to 3 charges as an action. For every charge you expend, you launch a glowing mote of light from the ring at a point you can see within 60 feet of you. Each creature within a 15-foot cube originating from that point is showered in sparks and must make a DC 15 [[06. Abilities#^d6a193|Dexterity]] saving throw, taking 5d4 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

#### Ring of Spell Storing

*Ring, rare (requires attunement)*

This ring stores spells cast into it, holding them until the attuned wearer uses them. The ring can store up to 5 levels worth of spells at a time. When found, it contains 1d6 ? 1 levels of stored spells chosen by the GM.

Any creature can [[08. Combat#^d7ef65|cast a spell]] of 1st through 5th level into the ring by touching the ring as the spell is cast. The spell has no effect, other than to be stored in the ring. If the ring can’t hold the spell, the spell is expended without effect. The level of the slot used to cast the spell determines how much space it uses.

While wearing this ring, you can cast any spell stored in it. The spell uses the slot level, spell save DC, spell [[08. Combat#^9b1f89|attack bonus]], and spellcasting ability of the original caster, but is otherwise treated as if you cast the spell. The spell cast from the ring is no longer stored in it, freeing up space.

#### Ring of Spell Turning

*Ring, legendary (requires attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you have advantage on saving throws against any spell that targets only you (not in an area of effect). In addition, if you roll a 20 for the save and the spell is 7th level or lower, the spell has no effect on you and instead targets the caster, using the slot level, spell save DC, [[08. Combat#^9b1f89|attack]] bonus, and spellcasting ability of the caster.

#### Ring of Swimming

*Ring, uncommon*

You have a swimming speed of 40 feet while wearing this ring.

#### Ring of Telekinesis

*Ring, very rare (requires attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you can cast the [[10. Spells#^a59e24|telekinesis]] spell at will, but you can target only objects that aren’t being worn or carried.

#### Ring of the Ram

*Ring, rare (requires attunement)*

This ring has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. While wearing the ring, you can use an action to expend 1 to 3 of its charges to [[08. Combat#^9b1f89|attack]] one creature you can see within 60 feet of you. The ring produces a spectral ram’s head and makes its [[08. Combat#^9b1f89|attack]] roll with a +7 bonus. On a hit, for each charge you spend, the target takes 2d10 force damage and is pushed 5 feet away from you.

Alternatively, you can expend 1 to 3 of the ring’s charges as an action to try to break an object you can see within 60 feet of you that isn’t being worn or carried. The ring makes a [[06. Abilities#^6bb081|Strength]] check with a +5 bonus for each charge you spend.

#### Ring of Three Wishes

*Ring, legendary*

While wearing this ring, you can use an action to expend 1 of its 3 charges to cast the [[10. Spells#^04c4cc|wish]] spell from it. The ring becomes non-magical when you use the last charge.

#### Ring of Warmth

*Ring, uncommon (requires attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you have [[10. Spells#^1e8440|resistance]] to cold damage. In addition, you and everything you wear and carry are unharmed by temperatures as low as ?50 degrees Fahrenheit.

#### Ring of Water Walking

*Ring, uncommon*

While wearing this ring, you can stand on and move across any liquid surface as if it were solid ground.

#### Ring of X-ray Vision

*Ring, rare (requires attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you can use an action to speak its command word. When you do so, you can see into and through solid matter for 1 minute. This vision has a radius of 30 feet. To you, solid objects within that radius appear transparent and don’t prevent light from passing through them. The vision can penetrate 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, or up to 3 feet of wood or dirt. Thicker substances block the vision, as does a thin sheet of lead.

Whenever you use the ring again before taking a [[07. Adventuring#^787800|long rest]], you must succeed on a DC 15 [[06. Abilities#^a43e50|Constitution]] saving throw or gain one level of [[11. Game Mastering#^d58943|exhaustion]].